Updated documentation for devcontainer.json (#577)
MicrosoftDocs/vsonline: vs-online/reference/configuring.md

> [!NOTE]
> The versions of Python, Node.js, .NET Core, and PHP in the container are based on the latest [Oryx](https://github.com/Microsoft/Oryx) image.

## Container features

Our service sets the following features by default in environments created without any special configuration in a **devcontainer.json** file. These features can also be manually specified when creating environments through any of the advanced configurations described later in this article.

### Host Network mode

Containers are created by default with `--network host` in the case of the default image, custom image, or custom Dockerfile scenarios. This allows the user to create side by side containers that would have network access to the main container.

If a `--network` property is included in `runArgs` as part of a **devcontainer.json** file it will override this default setting.

For docker-compose scenarios the default setting is not applied and should be specified in the docker-compose file.

### Docker socket mount

> Our service implements by default the DoD (Docker-outside-Docker) model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our service implements the DoD (Docker-outside-Docker) model by default.
```

> In default image scenarios the docker socket is mounted to the container, allowing the user to control docker and create side by side containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In default image scenarios, the docker socket is mounted to the container, allowing the user to control docker and create side-by-side containers.
```

> For DiD (Docker in Docker) you have to create a devcontainer.json file that references a docker image or Dockerfile with the necessary features like the `docker` image. See: [Docker](https://hub.docker.com/_/docker/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For DiD (Docker in Docker) you must create a devcontainer.json file that references a docker image or Dockerfile with the necessary features like the `docker` image. See: [Docker](https://hub.docker.com/_/docker/)
```

### Temporary SSD mount

For I/O intensive operations, the persistent storage that safeguards the user information might not be fast enough.

> For this reason we mount a local SSD drive to the `/tmp` folder inside the container. Any operation performed in this folder will be not be persisted across suspend/resume sessions, but it will get much faster I/O performance. The exact IOPS for the `/tmp` directory depends on the Codespace SKU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To improve I/O performance during intensive operations, we mount a local SSD drive to the `/tmp` folder inside the container. The exact IOPS for the `/tmp` directory depends on the Codespace SKU. Any operation performed in this folder will be not be persisted across suspend/resume sessions. 
```

Author: Merged this one with John's suggestion.

> [!NOTE]
> The versions of Python, Node.js, .NET Core, and PHP in the container are based on the latest [Oryx](https://github.com/Microsoft/Oryx) image.

## Container features

> Our service sets the following features by default in environments created without any special configuration in a **devcontainer.json** file. This features are optional when creating environments through any of the configurations described later in this article.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our service sets the following features by default in environments created without any special configuration in a **devcontainer.json** file. These features can also be manually specified when creating environments through any of the advanced configurations described later in this article.
```

### Host Network mode

Containers are created by default with `--network host` in the case of the default image, custom image, or custom Dockerfile scenarios. This allows the user to create side by side containers that would have network access to the main container.

If a `--network` property is included in `runArgs` as part of a **devcontainer.json** file it will override this default setting.

For docker-compose scenarios the default setting is not applied and should be specified in the docker-compose file.

### Docker socket mount

Our service implements by default the DoD (Docker-outside-Docker) model.

In default image scenarios the docker socket is mounted to the container, allowing the user to control docker and create side by side containers.

For DiD (Docker in Docker) you have to create a devcontainer.json file that references a docker image or Dockerfile with the necessary features like the `docker` image. See: [Docker](https://hub.docker.com/_/docker/)

### Temporary SSD mount

> For IO intensive operations the managed disk that safeguards the user information might not be fast enough.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For I/O intensive operations, the persistent storage that safeguards the user information might not be fast enough.
```

> For this reason we mount the local VM Premium SSD to the `/tmp` folder inside the container. Any operation performed in this folder will be local and get much faster IO performance (The IOPS depend on the SKU the environment is currently running in.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this reason we mount a local SSD drive to the `/tmp` folder inside the container. Any operation performed in this folder will be not be persisted across suspend/resume sessions, but it will get much faster I/O performance. The exact IOPS for the `/tmp` directory depends on the Codespace SKU.
```

> This mount is applied by default in possible configuration scenarios.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This mount is applied by default in all configuration scenarios.
```

> It can be disabled applying the following to the **devcontainer.json** file:

Reviewer 2: Just a note on formatting -- you have a lot of blank lines/paragraphs between several sections related to the same topic. It might be better to merge several of these sentences into a single paragraph.

Author: Thanks! Made some changes to condense into paragraphs.

  ```json
    "codespaces": {

>       "shouldEnableTmpMount" : false},

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      "shouldEnableTmpMount" : false
    },
```

  ```

> [!WARNING]
> The contents of this folder will be lost when the environment is suspended and resumed.

## Container requirements

> Containers should be able to fullfil requirements of both [VSCode Remote Server](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers#_system-requirements) and [Live Share](/visualstudio/liveshare/reference/linux#install-linux-prerequisites).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Containers should be able to fulfill requirements of both [VSCode Remote Server](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers#_system-requirements) and [Live Share](/visualstudio/liveshare/reference/linux#install-linux-prerequisites).
```

Start provisioning a container by including a **devcontainer.json** file in the project repository. A terminal containing the details of the build process will appear, and can be used to aid in diagnosing creation failures.

### Image support

Add the `image` argument and value to a **devcontainer.json** file in the project repository. The image must be in a public repository.

> A possible workflow to speed up environment creations would be to create this image as part of a Continuous Integration process and reference a particular tag here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A possible workflow to speed up environment creations would be to create this image as part of a Continuous Integration process and reference a particular tag here. Downloading a pre-built image is often faster than building a `Dockerfile` on-the-fly.
```

Our general container comes with Docker installed and we automatically create a Docker group. This configuration allows you to access Docker without `sudo`.

> If you'd like to access Docker within a custom container you can add the docker socket mount as part of a run argument or the mounts property as follows:

Reviewer 2: Is this still relevant now that we bind mount the docker socket by default?

Author: We do it by default in default environments but no longer do it for any custom one, since that's what was breaking docker in docker.

Reviewer 2: ah right 👍

| Property | Type | Description |
|----------|------|-------------|
| `image` | string | The name of an image in a public container registry (e.g. [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com), [Azure Container Registry](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/container-registry/), [GitHub](https://github.com/features/package-registry)) that Codespaces should use to create the environment. |
| `dockerFile` | string | The location of a [Dockerfile](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/) that Codespaces will `docker build` and use the resulting Docker image for the environment. The path is relative to the **devcontainer.json** file. You can find a number of sample Dockerfiles for different configurations in the [vscode-dev-containers repository](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode-dev-containers/tree/master/containers).

> | `dockerComposeFile` | string or array | A single or a list of docker-compose files that will be applied when executing docker-compose up. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `dockerComposeFile` | string or array | A single or a list of docker-compose yml files that will be applied when executing `docker-compose up`. |
```

| `service` | string | The name of the service declared inside the docker-compose file that the user wants to connect to. |
| `context` | string | Path that the Codespaces `docker build` command should be run from, relative to **devcontainer.json**. For example, a value of `".."` would allow you to reference content in sibling directories. Defaults to `"."`. |

> | `runArgs` | string | Arguments to pass to docker when creating the container. Only `-e`, `-u`, `--network`, `--privileged`, `--cap-add=SYS_PTRACE`, `--security-opt seccomp=unconfined` and the docker socket bind mount are taken into account. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `runArgs` | string | Arguments passed to docker when creating the container. Only `-e`, `-u`, `--network`, `--privileged`, `--cap-add=SYS_PTRACE`, `--security-opt seccomp=unconfined` and the docker socket bind mount are taken into account. |
```

| `containerUser` | string or array | The user that will be used when creating the container. If the property is undefined, it defaults to either root or the last USER instruction in the Dockerfile. |
| `remoteUser` | string or array | Overrides the user that VS Code runs as in the container (along with sub-processes like terminals, tasks, or debugging). This property defaults to the `containerUser`. |
| `build.args` | object | An object containing Docker image build arguments that should be passed when building a Dockerfile. Defaults to not set. For example: "build": { "args": { "MYARG": "MYVALUE" } } |
| `build.target` | string | An string that specifies a Docker image build target that should be passed when building a Dockerfile Defaults to not set. For example: "build": { "target": "development" } |

### Codespaces properties

| Property | Type | Description |
|----------|------|-------------|

> | `codespaces.shouldEnableTmpMount` | boolean | Defaults to `true`. Setting `false` disables mounting the local SSD in the containers `/tmp` folder. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `codespaces.shouldEnableTmpMount` | boolean | Defaults to `true`. Setting `false` disables mounting the local SSD in the container's `/tmp` folder. |
```
